# Implementing-Minimax-on-Connect4

The program contains 4 java classes and 5 interfaces.

Reversi class is where the main is. You can run the program by running Reversi. It let you choose whether you want to play the dark or light piece, and also display state of game, results etc of the game. The Game class contain the rules and make moves of Reversi(Move and isValidH, isValidD, isValidV method), check whether the board is at goal state(isGoal method), utility function of Reversi(utility method), heuristic function of Reversi works for evaluating points during the game. (Heuristic method), make the board of Reversi, and the method that player can get successor and legal actions(get successor method). The mnm class contains the minimax algorithm for the Reversi, find the maximum for a player, and minimum for the other, it will search all the states. The hmnmab class integrate minimax algorithm with alphabeta pruning, heuristic function for evaluating points and set a fix depth cut off because the number of state search of 8x8 Reversi is too many. There are also 5 interface. SearchAlgorithm interface and h_SearchAlgorithm allows you to use the different algorithm in different games, which contains one is minimax and the other is heuristic minimax with alpha beta pruning and fixed depth cut off. The State interface contains the goal, utility and heuristic. The Action interface contains get successors of the game. The Result interface contains the moves of the game, which include placing pieces and flip them.

To run the program, you need to use Reversi class. Just hit the run Botton.First, it would let you to choose which dimension of the board you want. You could choose either 4x4 board or 8x8 board Reversi. After choosing the board, it would let you to choose the type of AI you want. First is minimax and second is heuristic minimax with alpha beta pruning with fixed depth cut off. If you choose 2, then it will ask you to enter the depth that you want to cut off. If you choose 4x4 board, both of them works fine. If you choose 8x8 board, we recommend you to choose heuristic minimax, because the number of states for 8x8 board is too big, and it runs pretty slow. And for the depth, we recommend you to choose below 12, it will run perfectly and quickly. At last, it will ask you to choose either you want to play dark or light. If you choose dark, then you will play first, and vice versa. And you can play your game! It will hint you the valid moves you have, and if you move wrong, it will say that your move is invalid too.
